---
eleventyComputed:
    title:  "{{ page.fileSlug }}"
description: A winter post with winter musings
permalink: 1000/{{ page.fileSlug }}/index.html
date: git Last Modified
---

It's wintertime now, and it's gotten colder. Somehow it's always feels colder than you expect when winter first starts, until eventually it hardly feels cold at all when the season is over. I associate freezing temperatures with just needing a insulated jacket and gloves, and it's not until it gets much colder I bring out the parka. Except this winter it's already out.

I guess biking to work makes it tricker. I have a longer ride now, on my own non electric bike so that contributes to it. At least on those days it's ok if I come in late and take the bus. Then, I also get to read whatever random fantasy novel on my phone I've been enjoying while I'm whisked through the windy Chicago winter. It's quite a cozy start to the morning.

It's always awkward right before travel because while there are quite a number of things I've been meaning to do, there's hardly any time when it feels like you're about to leave any day now. On the other hand, it means that when I get back I'll have my work cut out for me. I recall well the emptiness that accompanies returning after a long trip, and the fresh, raw time after that. I'm looking forward to seeing if this return will feel the same or different.

Waking up in the mornings is somehow both harder and easier in the cold. I like that the sunrise is so late, I can wake up naturally to the sun. I like looking out upon the cold city at night. There's no snow yet, but just knowing that it is very cold out there and very warm in here makes it cozier. I even don't mind waking up cold. It's a little annoying, but I like burrowing under the thick winter blanket and then waiting for the heat to turn on. It's nice.

I wish I liked hot drinks more. Or, perhaps, I should make myself more hot drinks that I enjoy. I certainly do enjoy appropriate seasonal food and drink, and grabbing a coffee just feels more right during the winter.

It's funny that in my quest to find an appropriate winter activity, because I feared not having enough to do indoors, I might actually make myself more busy than I was in the summer! I've investigated a number of really intriguing options, the most exciting of which is to do a woodworking project! Imagine if I come out of this having built a coffee table.

Also I think I'll be dedicating a decent chunk of indoor time to upgrading my current skill level at a few different things. Crochet is one, but also I want to take my knowledge of cooking and drink making to the next level. Partially this is just because it's indoors and easy to do, but also in a large part because I've been to some very yummy but ultimately imperfect dishes. I've always liked the idea of fine dining, and I wonder how well I could do if I hosted an event where my dinner was the main focus of the meal? It's intriguing, but baby steps. I'll get there eventually.

I do think I've come to realize that just about any everyday mundane thing can be made arbitrarily good with nothing but conscientiousness and hard work. Cards for special occasions, food, events, gifts. There aren't many other factors, even money, that are worth more than just putting a lot of time and thought into something. I also believe that, perhaps as a personal challenge to myself, I should at least once in my life serve an unforgettable meal or host an incomparable event. Maybe just to demonstrate that I can.

I really can't belive it's already half way through December. The last months of the year really fly by. I guess it's good - winter feels like it's almost half over. But it's also a shame it's half over because I am still very much enjoying its cozy, focused atmosphere. It's quite wonderful that, when each season ends, while being a shame that it's over so soon, it's invigorating that the next one is right around the corner. Would that everyone could feel such bittersweet excitement four times a year.

I always take a trip each winter, and I'm always abnormally excited for what is the worst part of any trip - the flight. Each year I always know what books or tv shows or games I'm looking forward to, and for the last tenth of the year I don't permit myself to touch that media until I'm on the place. Again, kind of a bittersweet excitement for something ordinarily so boring. I'm looking forward to enjoying those things, but it will be a shame once they're over.

Is it true that the city lights are prettier in the winter? I wouldn't be surprised if the cold, dry air makes the lights appear sharper and more brilliant. I also wouldn't be surprised if it's entirely psychological, thanks to staying cody indoors all day. I enjoy it all the same so I will not judge.

Is it true the sunsets are more brilliant? These last few Chicago sunsets have very much been a sight to behold. It sure seems like it to me, but once again it could go either way. I guess I'm enjoying my winter so much that I just won't question these things. It is simply better to enjoy.

I hope I can get a lot of reading done this winter and this trip. That would do wonders for making the new year feel like a fresh, new year. On that note maybe I should start thinking about new years resolutions. I feel like something big is drawing to and end, and that necessarily means something else big will soon be starting. If I'm not quick enough to get ahead of it then it might get ahead of me, and I wouldn't want that to happen.